Deploying QATrack+ with IIS, CherryPy & SQL Server
==================================================

This guide is going to walk you through installing QATrack+ on a Windows
Server 2012R2 server with IIS 10 serving static assets (images,
javascript and stylesheets) and acting as a reverse proxy for a CherryPy
web server which serves our Django application (QATrack+). SQL Server
2014 will be used as the database.

The steps we will be undertaking are:

1. Installing and configuring git
2. Checkout the latest release of the QATrack+ source code from
   bitbucket.
3. Setting up our Python environment (including virtualenv)
4. Making sure everything is working up to this point
5. Setting up a database with SQL Server
6. Configuring CherryPy to serve our QATrack+ site.
7. Configuring IIS
8. Wrap up

1. Installing git
-----------------

Go to http://git-scm.com and download the latest version of git
(msysgit) for Windows (Git-2.10.0 at the time of writing). Run the
installer. I just leave all the settings on there defaults but you are
free to modify them if you like.

Step 1 done ;)

2. Checkout the latest release of QATrack+ source code from bitbucket
---------------------------------------------------------------------

From the Start Menu look for the Git folder under All Programs and
select Git Bash. This will open up a console window which we will be
using fairly heavily for the rest of the process. (Note: this is a
fairly full featured bash shell and is a lot more powerful than the
default windows command prompt).

To create a home for QATrack+ and check out the source code, use the
following commands:

::

    #!bash

    mkdir /c/deploy
    cd /c/deploy
    git clone https://bitbucket.org/tohccmedphys/qatrackplus.git

3. Setting up our Python environment
------------------------------------

*Note all Python packages should be 32 bit versions even on 64 bit
machines*

Go to http://www.python.org/download/ and download the *32 bit* Python
2.7.X Windows Installer for Python (current version is 2.7.12 at the
time of writing -- QATrack+ does not currently support Python3). Go
through the installer using the default options (Install for all users).

You will also want to add Python to your PATH environment variable. \*
Open the Control Panel \* Select System & Security \* Select System \*
Select Advanced System Settings on the left hand side \* Select
Environment Variables \* Select Path under the System variables section
and then click edit \* **Append**
;C::raw-latex:`\Python`27;C::raw-latex:`\Python`27:raw-latex:`\Scripts `to
the end of the path. Don't overwrite the existing value! \* Click
Ok/Ok/Ok

Close the git bash command prompt you had open before and then open a
new one (this will give you access to the updated PATH variable).

In your new git bash window the command ``which python`` should return
``/c/Python27/python``. If it doesn't then your PATH variable has not
been set correctly.

We now need to download numpy, Scipy and pywin32. \* Go to
http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#scipy and download
scipy-0.18.1-cp27-cp27m-win32.whl \* and then go to \* Go to
http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#scipy and download
numpy-1.11.2+mkl-cp27-cp27m-win32.whl * *
https://sourceforge.net/projects/pywin32/files/pywin32/Build%20220 and
download pywin32-220.win32-py2.7.exe \*

\*Note the versions on that page are regularly updated, so the exact
versions listed here may not be available: just grab the one that looks
closest, e.g. numpy-1.11.3+mkl-cp27-cp27m-win32.whl is fine!

We're now ready to install all the libraries QATrack+ depends on.

::

    #!bash
    cd /c/deploy
    pip install virtualenv
    mkdir venvs
    virtualenv venvs/qatrack
    source venvs/qatrack/scripts/activate
    cd qatrackplus
    easy_install ~/Downloads/pywin32-220.win32-py2.7.exe
    pip install ~/Downloads/numpy-1.11.1+mkl-cp27-cp27m-win32.whl
    pip install ~/Downloads/scipy-0.18.1-cp27-cp27m-win32.whl
    pip install -r requirements/base.txt
    pip install -r requirements/optional.txt
    pip install -r requirements/win.txt

4. checking everything is functional so far
-------------------------------------------

Getting everything installed was a pain, so lets take a minute and check
everything is now functioning as it should. create a directory called
'db' in the main qatrackplus directory and then setup a temporary
database for testing (answer 'yes' and create a super user when
prompted).

::

    #!bash
    cd /c/deploy/qatrackplus
    mkdir db
    winpty python manage.py syncdb
    winpty python manage.py migrate
    winpty python manage.py loaddata $(PWD)/fixtures/defaults/*/*
    winpty python manage.py collectstatic

You should now be able to run the built in test server and access your
QATrack+ site for the first time! At the command prompt type the
following to start the server:

::

    #!bash
    winpty python manage.py runserver

You should then be able to open a browser window and visit
http://127.0.0.1:8000 where you will be redirected to a login page (you
can login using the superuser you created earlier).

In the terminal hit ``Ctrl+C`` to kill the server.

5. Creating a database with SQL Server
--------------------------------------

Open SQL Server Management Studio and enter 'localhost' for the server
name and click Connect.

In the Object Explorer frame, right click the Databases folder and
select "New Database...".

Enter 'qatrackdb' as the database name and click OK.

Back in the Object Explorer frame, right click on the main Security
folder and click New Login... Set the login name to 'qatrack', select
SQL Server Authentication. Enter 'qatrackpass' (or whatever you like)
for the password fields and uncheck Enforce Password Policy. Click OK.

Back in the Object Explorer frame, expand the qatrackdb database, right
click on Security and select New->User.

Enter 'qatrack' as the User name and Login name and then in the Database
Role Membership regio select 'db\_datawriter', 'db\_datareader' and
'db\_owner'. Click OK.

Configuring QATrack+ to use your new database
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Create a file called local\_settings.py in
/c/deploy/qatrackplus/qatrack/ and add the following contents:

::

    #!python
    DEBUG = False
    TEMPLATE_DEBUG = DEBUG

    DATABASES = {
        'default': {
            'ENGINE': 'sqlserver_ado', # Add 'postgresql_psycopg2', 'mysql', 'sqlite3' or 'oracle'.
            'NAME': 'qatrackdb',                      # Or path to database file if using sqlite3.
            'USER': '',                      # Not used with sqlite3.
            'PASSWORD': '',                  # Not used with sqlite3.
            'HOST': 'localhost',                      # Set to empty string for localhost. Not used with sqlite3.
            'PORT': '',                      # Set to empty string for default. Not used with sqlite3.
            'OPTIONS': {
                'provider': 'sqlncli11'
            }
        }
    }

    ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['127.0.0.1', 'localhost']  # See local settings docs

Once again, we will configure our new MS SQL database from the command
prompt (answer 'yes' and create a super user when prompted):

::

    #!bash
    winpty python manage.py syncdb
    winpty python manage.py migrate
    winpty python manage.py loaddata $(PWD)/fixtures/defaults/*/*

6. Configuring CherryPy to Serve QATrack+
-----------------------------------------

Django's built in web server that we used earlier is not meant to be
used in production. Instead we will be using CherryPy to serve QATrack+.

Copy the file cherrypy\_deploy.py from the deploy/ directory to the root
qatrackplus directory and run it like so:

::

    cd /c/deploy/qatrackplus
    cp deploy/cherrypy_deploy.py ./
    python cherrypy_deploy.py

That command won't appear to do anything but you should be able to visit
http://127.0.0.1:8080 in your browser and see the login screen. (Don't
worry if it looks different than before...CherryPy is not setup to serve
the style sheets and images)

Back in the terminal window hit ``Ctrl+C`` to kill the server.

Installing CherryPy as a Windows Service
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In order to have CherryPy start when you reboot your server, or restart
after a crash, you may wish to install your CherryPy server as a Windows
service.

::

    #!bash
    cd /c/deploy/qatrackplus
    mkdir logs
    cp deploy/QATrackCherryPyService.py .
    python QATrackCherryPyService.py install
    python QATrackCherryPyService.py start

Your QATrack+ installation is now installed as a Windows Service. I
would recommend configuring your service to auto start. Instructions on
how to do that can be found on the `Windows Service Wikipedia
page <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_service#Managing_services>`__.
You may also wish to configure the service to email you in the event of
a crash (see the Recovery tab of the QATrackCherryPyService
configuration dialogue).

7. Setting up IIS
-----------------

We are going to use IIS for two purposes: first, it is going to serve
all of our static media (css, js and images) and second it is going to
act as a reverse proxy to forward the QATrack+ specific requests to
CherryPy.

Before starting please make sure you have the `Application Request
Routing <http://www.iis.net/downloads/microsoft/application-request-routing>`__
IIS module installed. Application Request Routing needs to have the
reverse proxy setting enabled: for instructions see the section titled
Enabling Reverse Proxy Functionality on `this
page <http://www.iis.net/learn/extensions/url-rewrite-module/reverse-proxy-with-url-rewrite-v2-and-application-request-routing>`__.

Once you have Applicationn Request Routing installed and proxies
enabled, n the left panel of IIS under Sites, select the default Web
Site and click Stop on the right hand side.

.. figure:: stop_default.png
   :alt: Stop default web site

   Stop default web site

Now right click on Sites and click Add Web Site

.. figure:: add_web_site.png
   :alt: Add a new web site

   Add a new web site

Enter QATrack Static for the Site Name and
C::raw-latex:`\deploy`:raw-latex:`\qatrackplus`:raw-latex:`\qatrack` for
the Physical Path then click OK and answer Yes to the warning.

To test that setup worked correctly open a browser on your server and
enter the address http://localhost/static/img/tux.png You should see a
picture of the Linux penguin.

Next, select the top level server in the Connections pane and then
double click URL Rewrite

.. figure:: url_rewrite.png
   :alt: URL Rewrite

   URL Rewrite

In the top right click Add Rule and select Blank Rule.

Give it a name of QATrack Static and enter ^(static\|media)/.\* for the
Pattern field, and select None for the Action type. Make sure
``Stop processing of subsequent rules`` is checked.

.. figure:: static_rule.png
   :alt: static rule

   static rule

When finished click Back To Rules and then add another blank rule. Give
it a name of QATrack Reverse Proxy, enter (.\*) for the Pattern and
http://localhost:8080/{R:1} for the Rewrite URL. Make sure both Append
query string and Stop processing of subsequent rules are checked.

.. figure:: reverse_proxy.png
   :alt: URL Rewrite Reverse Proxy

   URL Rewrite Reverse Proxy

Your URL rewrites should look like the following (order is important!)

.. figure:: url_rules.png
   :alt: URL Rewrites

   URL Rewrites

You should now be able to visit http://localhost/ in a browser on your
server and see the QATrack+ login page. Congratulations, you now have a
functional QATrack+ setup on your Windows Server!

*there are many different ways to configure IIS. The method I've used
above is simple and works well when QATrack+ is the only web service
running on a server.*

8. Wrap Up
----------

This guide shows only one of many possible method of deploying QATrack+
on Windows. It is very similar to what we use at The Ottawa Hospital
Cancer Centre and it has proven to be a very solid setup. If you're
stuck with a Windows stack it will likely work for you too. Hit me up on
the `QATrack+ Google
Group <https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups=#!forum/qatrack>`__
if you want to discuss some other alternatives for deploying on Windows.

References:

[1] http://www.computerhope.com/issues/ch000549.htm
