Deploying QATrack+ with IIS, SSO/Windows Authentication, & SQL Server
=====================================================================

This guide is going to walk you through installing QATrack+ on a Windows
2008 R2 server with IIS serving our Django application (QATrack+). SQL
Server 2008 will be used as the database. Windows Integrated
Authentication is used for single-sign on.

The steps we will be undertaking are:

1. Installing and configuring git
2. Checkout the latest release of the QATrack+ source code from
   bitbucket.
3. Setting up our Python environment (including virtualenv)
4. Configuring IIS to serve our QATrack+ site.
5. Setting up a database with SQL Server
6. Wrap Up

The first four steps are common to the Windows/IIS/CherryPy install and
will not be repeated here. While the use of only one web server (IIS) to
host all aspects of QATrack is likely more robust, it has not yet been
tested in a multi-user environment. Once testing and tweaking is
completed, then I imagine that this wiki will be combined with the
Win/IIS/CherryPy page into one Windows installation method.

1. Installing git
-----------------

`See the Windows/IIS/CherryPy wiki <iis.html>`__

2. Checkout the latest release of QATrack+ source code from bitbucket
---------------------------------------------------------------------

`See the Windows/IIS/CherryPy wiki <iis.html>`__

3. Setting up our Python environment
------------------------------------

`See the Windows/IIS/CherryPy wiki <iis.html>`__ -- Note that in the last
steps of section 3, the "pip install cherrypy" is not necessary, but
there's no harm done if you install it either.

4. Configuring IIS to Serve QATrack+
------------------------------------

*The following is an modification of the how-to from CodeSmartInc:
http://codesmartinc.com/2013/04/12/running-django-in-iis7iis8/*

Ensure that 'CGI' and 'URL Authorization' are installed within the IIS
options.

Download and install the MS Web Platform Installer (WPI) from:
http://www.microsoft.com/web/downloads/platform.aspx

Launch WPI and search for FastCGI. Add/Install "WFastCGI 2.0 Gateway for
IIS and Python 2.7". Confirm that wfastcgi.py is in
C::raw-latex:`\Python`27:raw-latex:`\Scripts`.

Within the IIS Manager, go to your web server, and ensure that IIS has
icons for both CGI and FastCGI.

Stop/Delete/Remove the default site.

Create a new site in IIS by right-clicking on Sites and selecting "Add
Web Site". QATrack would be a good name but anything works. Select
"C::raw-latex:`\deploy`:raw-latex:`\qatrackplus`" as the path. Confirm
80 as the port. Host Name can be left blank. Leave the "Start Site
Immediately" checked.

Select the root server. Double click on Handler Mappings. In the upper
right-hand side, click 'Add Module Mapping':

-  Request path: \*
-  Module: FastCgiModule
-  Executable:
   C::raw-latex:`\deploy`:raw-latex:`\venvs`:raw-latex:`\qatrack`:raw-latex:`\Scripts`:raw-latex:`\python`.exe\|c::raw-latex:`\Python`27:raw-latex:`\Scripts`:raw-latex:`\wfastcgi`.py
-  Name: QATrackHandler

When you select OK, you will be asked if you want to add an entry to the
FastCGI collection in IIS. Answer YES.

Select the root server. Double-click on FastCGI Settings. There should
be two entries. Remove the entry with the Full Path to
'C::raw-latex:`\Python`27:raw-latex:`\python`.exe. Double-click on the
remaining entry, with the full path to your VENV Python.exe with an
argument to your wfastcgi.py. Click on Collection in Environment
Variables property box and click the ... button. Add the following three
environment variables:

-  DJANGO\_SETTINGS\_MODULE: qatrack.settings
-  PYTHONPATH: C::raw-latex:`\deploy`:raw-latex:`\qatrackplus`
-  WSGI\_HANDLER: django.core.handlers.wsgi.WSGIHandler()

Click OK/OK.

Right-click on your site within IIS and select "Add Application".

-  Alias: Static
-  Path:
   C::raw-latex:`\deploy`:raw-latex:`\qatrackplus`:raw-latex:`\qatrack`:raw-latex:`\static`

Click OK.

Navigate to this static application's Handler Mappings module and remove
the QATrackHandler handler that was created automatically through
inheritance.

Create a local group of users (within Server Manager) to include all
local and Active Directory users that you would like to be able to
access your QATrack site.

Within IIS Manager, For the root server, \* double-click
'Authentication' and disable all EXCEPT enable Anonymous Authentication.
\* double-click 'Authorization Rules' and ensure that 'All Users' are
allowed access.

For the QATrack site: \* double-click 'Authentication' and disable all
EXCEPT enable Windows Authentication. \* double-click 'Authorization
Rules' and create a rule to allow the QATrackUsers group access. Remove
any other rules that might exist.

For the static application \* double-click 'Authentication' and disable
all EXCEPT enable Anonymous Authentication. \* double-click
'Authorization Rules' and ensure that 'All Users' are allowed access.

Note that the above Authentication/Authorization rules inherit from
higher levels, so you may want to double-check that all inheritances are
removed and that you have only the desired configuration. Also note that
this is optional, but given that unknown users are automatically created
within the QATrack database, I favour the idea of closing the gate here.

Install python-ldap from:
https://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-ldap/2.4.10. Copy the 'ldap' folder
from
C::raw-latex:`\Python`27:raw-latex:`\Lib`:raw-latex:`\site`-packages into
C::raw-latex:`\deploy`:raw-latex:`\venvs`:raw-latex:`\qatrack`:raw-latex:`\Lib`:raw-latex:`\site`-packages 

5. Creating a database with SQL Server
--------------------------------------

From the start menu find and open SQL Server Management Studio. Enter
'localhost:raw-latex:`\INSTANCE`' for the server name, where INSTANCE is
the SQL server instance name that was chosen during the SQL Server
install, and click Connect.local

In the Object Explorer frame, right click the Databases folder and
select "New Database...".

Enter 'QATrackDB' as the database name and click OK.

Back in the Object Explorer frame, right click on the main Security
folder and click New Login...

-  Set the login name to 'IIS APPPOOL:raw-latex:`\QATrack`', select
   Windows Authentication. Click OK.

Back in the Object Explorer frame, expand the qatrackdb database, right
click on Security and select New->User.

Enter 'IIS APPPOOL:raw-latex:`\QATrack`' as the User name and Login name
and then below in the Database Role Membership select 'db\_datawriter'
and 'db\_datareader'. Click OK.

Configuring QATrack+ to use your new database
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Create a file called local\_settings.py in
/c/deploy/qatrackplus/qatrack/ and add the following contents:

::

    #!python
    DEBUG = False
    TEMPLATE_DEBUG = False

    DATABASES = {
        'default': {
            'ENGINE': 'sqlserver_ado',       # Add 'postgresql_psycopg2', 'mysql', 'sqlite3' or 'oracle'.
            'NAME': 'QATrackDB',             # Or path to database file if using sqlite3.
            'USER': '',                      # Not used with sqlite3.
            'PASSWORD': '',                  # Not used with sqlite3.
            'HOST': 'localhost\\QATRACK',    # Set to empty string for localhost.  'host\\Instance'
            'PORT': '',                      # Set to empty string for default. Not used with sqlite3.
        }
    }



    #------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    # Middleware
    MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = (
        'django.middleware.common.CommonMiddleware',
        'django.contrib.sessions.middleware.SessionMiddleware',
        'django.middleware.csrf.CsrfViewMiddleware',
        'django.contrib.auth.middleware.AuthenticationMiddleware',
        'django.contrib.auth.middleware.RemoteUserMiddleware',
        'django.contrib.messages.middleware.MessageMiddleware',
        'qatrack.middleware.login_required.LoginRequiredMiddleware',
        'qatrack.middleware.maintain_filters.FilterPersistMiddleware',
        'debug_toolbar.middleware.DebugToolbarMiddleware',
    )

    #-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    # Authentication backend settings

    AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS = (
        'qatrack.accounts.backends.WindowsIntegratedAuthenticationBackend',
    )

    # active directory settings (not required if only using ModelBackend
    AD_DNS_NAME = "mydomain.ca"
    CLEAN_USERNAME_STRING = 'MYDomainName\\' # see https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/qatrack/EvteC2vUflQ

    # If using non-SSL use these
    AD_LDAP_PORT = 389
    AD_LDAP_URL = 'ldap://%s:%s' % (AD_DNS_NAME, AD_LDAP_PORT)

    AD_SEARCH_DN = "DC=MYDOMAIN,DC=ca"  
    AD_NT4_DOMAIN = "mydomain.ca"  # Network domain that AD server is part of

    AD_SEARCH_FIELDS = ['mail', 'givenName', 'sn', 'sAMAccountName', 'memberOf']
    AD_MEMBERSHIP_REQ = [] 



    ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['your_server_ip_here']  # See local settings docs

For details of what the ``ALLOWED_HOSTS`` setting should be, please see
`the local\_settings.py page <../settings.html>`__.

We will configure our new MS SQL database from the Git Bash command
prompt. Answer 'yes' and create a super user when prompted -- this will
be the first/only superuser within QATrack+:

::

    #!bash
    source /c/deploy/venvs/qatrack/Scripts/activate
    cd /c/deploy/qatrackplus/
    python manage.py syncdb
    python manage.py migrate
    python manage.py loaddata fixtures/defaults/*/*
    python manage.py collectstatic

6. Wrap Up
----------

Congratulations! You should now be able to navigate to http://localhost
and see your newly created instance of QATrack+.

This guide shows only one of many possible method of deploying QATrack+
on Windows. If you're stuck with a Windows stack it will likely work for
you too. Post any questions on the QATrack+ Google Group if you want to
discuss some other alternatives for deploying on Windows.
