A step-by-step introduction to QATrack+ administration (continued)
==================================================================

`(Previous Page) <test_list_start_to_finish_5.html>`__

In this part of the tutorial we will assign our test list to a unit and
ensure that it is functioning correctly on the main site.

Assigning the test list
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To assign the test list to a unit, visit the **Assing Test Lists to
Units** link under the **QA** section from the main admin page and then
click on **Add unit test collection** in the top right hand corner.

Select the *Test Unit* from the **Unit:** dropdown, and then create a
new `frequency <../frequencies>`__ by clicking on the green cross next
to the **Frequency** dropdown. Give the frequency the name *Monthly*,
slug *monthly* and enter *28*, *28*, *35* for **Nominal interval**,
**Due Interval** and for **Overdue interval**, respectively.

.. figure:: new_frequency.png
   :alt: creating a new frequency

   creating a new frequency

Select the *Physics* option from the **Assigned to:** dropdown and *test
list* from the **Content Type** dropdown. After selecting *test list*
you will be able to select *Machine Output* from the *Object id*
dropdown.

.. figure:: assign_to_unit.png
   :alt: Assigning to a unit

   Assigning to a unit

When you're finished click **Save**.

Checking our work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Visit the main site (you can click the *QATrack+ administration* header
at the top of the admin page) and select the *Choose Unit* link from the
*Perform QA* dropdown at the top of the page. On the next page choose
the *Monthly* option from the *Test Unit* drop down.

.. figure:: choose_monthly.png
   :alt: Choosing Monthly

   Choosing Monthly

On the next page click **Perform Monthly QA** beside the *Machine
Output* test list.

.. figure:: test_list_listing.png
   :alt: Monthly test listings

   Monthly test listings

You should now see the test list you defined:

.. figure:: final_test_list.png
   :alt: Final test list

   Final test list

Fill in sample values of :

-  Temperature = 24
-  Pressure = 760
-  Ion Chamber Reading = 2.56

And you should see the *Temperature-Pressure Correction* and *Dose*
values calculated as 1.007 and 1.017 respectively.

.. figure:: calculated_results.png
   :alt: Calculated results

   Calculated results

Notice that the **Status** for the tests all show *No Tol Set*. This is
because we haven't set reference values and tolerance/action levels for
these tests. That procedure is `covered
elsewhere <../../setting_refs_and_tols.html>`__.

Wrapping Up
~~~~~~~~~~~

We have now gone through the basics of taking QATrack+ from a blank
installation all the way to performing our first test list! Check out
the `admin guide <../../guide.html>`__ (for configuration) and `users
guide <../../../users/guide.html>`__\ (for end user instructions) for more
information.
