A step-by-step introduction to QATrack+ administration
======================================================

This guide will take you through:

1. Logging in and accessing the admin interface

2. Changing the name displayed at the top of your QATrack+ website

3. creating a radiation `unit <../../units.html>`__

4. creating different `user groups <../../auth.html>`__

5. configuring `test statuses <../../statuses.html>`__

6. setting up a `test list <../../test_lists.html>`__ for performing a
   linac output measurement,

7. `assigning the test list to a unit <../../assign_to_unit.html>`__

8. and finally `setting references and
   tolerances <../../setting_refs_and_tols.html>`__ for your tests.

This tutorial assumes your website administrator has QATrack+ configured
and running on a server somewhere and has assigned you a
username/password with `superuser <../../auth.html>`__ status.

Logging in and accessing the admin interface
--------------------------------------------

Access QATrack+ (your website adminstrator should have provided you with
a URL) in your favourite webbrowser. QATrack+ looks and works best with
`Chrome <https://www.google.com/intl/en/chrome/browser/>`__ or
`Firefox <http://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/new/>`__ but Internet
Explorer versions 7 and up are also supported.

If you are not already logged in, you will be taken to the login page:

.. figure:: login.png
   :alt: Login screen

   Login screen

enter your username and password and click the **Log In** button.

.. figure:: after_login.png
   :alt: First login

   First login

After logging in, you should see a screen similar to the one below.
There's not much here since we haven't defined any units or test lists
yet but in the top right hand corner beside your name you should see
that you are part of the *Administrators* group.

Click the little dropdown arrow next to your name in the top right hand
corner, and then select the **Admin** option from the dropdown menu.

.. figure:: access_admin.png
   :alt: Accessing the admin site

   Accessing the admin site

This takes you to the main admin page where you will be doing all of
your QATrack+ configuration.

Setting up the name of your QATrack+ website
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As you may have noticed in earlier screen shots, the words "example.com"
are displayed at the top of your website. Let's change that to
"QATrack+".

From the main admin page find the **Sites** section and click on the
**Sites** link.

.. figure:: sites_section.png
   :alt: Sites section of the admin page

   Sites section of the admin page

Click on the ``example.com`` entry under the **Domain name** column
header.

.. figure:: example_dot_com.png
   :alt: example.com

   example.com

and then set the relevant fields (ask your admin if you're not sure of
the domain name to use) and click **Save** when you're finished.

.. figure:: set_name.png
   :alt: Setting the site name

   Setting the site name

If you now return to the main site (at any time you can click the
**QATrack+ administration** header at the top of the admin pages to
return to the main QATrack+ site) you should see your site now says
**QATrack+** at the top rather than **example.com**.

.. figure:: changed_name.png
   :alt: changed site name

   changed site name

In the `next step of this tutorial <test_list_start_to_finish_2.html>`__
we will configure a new radiation unit.
