Setting Reference & Tolerance Values
====================================

When you `assign a test list to a unit <assign_to_unit.html>`__ each of
the tests from that list are assigned a record of the reference value
and tolerance/action levels on that unit. Reference values and
tolerance/action levels are unit specific so you must set these values
for every unit a test is assigned to. Initially the reference value and
tolerance/action levels are set to null so you will need to update them
if you want to subject your tests to pass/fail criteria when performing
a test list.

To set the reference and tolerance values click on the **Set References
and Tolerances** link from the main admin page. From here you will see a
list of all the test/unit pairs for any test list which has been
assigned to a unit. To set the reference value for a given test on a
unit you can either browse through the list or use the search box at the
top of the page to find the test you are looking for. Note, you may also
use the filters at the side of the page to narrow your search. The image
below shows a search for a test which has been assigned to two units.

.. figure:: images/setting_refs_and_tols/ref_tol_search.png
   :alt: Searching for a test on a unit

   Searching for a test on a unit

Once you have located the test/unit pair you want to set the reference
for, click on its name. From here you will see information about the
current reference value and tolerance/action levels including when these
values were last changed and who changed them.

.. figure:: images/setting_refs_and_tols/ref_tol.png
   :alt: Reference and tolerance example

   Reference and tolerance example

Numerical References & Tolerances
---------------------------------

If the test you are setting reference values for is numerical (e.g.
`simple numerical or composite test types <tests.html>`__) you can choose
a `tolerance/action level <tolerances.html>`__ from the **Tolerances:**
drop down and set the reference value in the text box below that.

The tolerance/action levels of a test act as a window around the
reference value. For example if a certain test on a unit has reference
value of 50 and a tolerance/action level of +/- 2%/3% (i.e. lower action
= -3%, lower tolerance = -2 %, upper tolerance = 2%, upper action = 3%)
then values between 49 and 51 will be considered within tolerance,
values between 48.5 & 49 or 51 & 51.5 will be considered at tolerance
and values less than 48.5 or greater than 51.5 will be considered
failing.

Boolean References
------------------

For boolean tests there is no tolerance/action levels. You just choose
whether the reference value is Yes or No and when performing a test
list, if the users answer matches the reference value the test will be
considered passing. If the answer doesn't match the reference value it
will be considered a failing result.

Multiple Choice References
--------------------------

Multiple choice tests have no reference value. For information about
multiple choice tolerances, please see the `tolerances
page <tolerances.html>`__.

Setting multiple References & Tolerances at the same time
=========================================================

To set a group of tests to the same reference/tolerance value, go to the
``Set References & Tolerances`` page and select all the tests you want
to set:

.. figure:: images/setting_refs_and_tols/set_multiple_list.png
   :alt: Setting multiple references & Tolerance

   Setting multiple references & Tolerance

then select ``Set multiple references and tolerances`` from the
``Actions`` dropdown list at the top and click ``Go``.

On the next page set the desired reference & tolerance value then click
``Set tolerances and references``.

.. figure:: images/setting_refs_and_tols/set_multiple_value.png
   :alt: Setting multiple references & Tolerance

   Setting multiple references & Tolerance

Copying References & Tolerances between units
=============================================

It is possible to copy references and tolerances from one unit to
another. This is quite handy when you have the same test list assigned
to multiple units with the same reference values set.

From the main admin page click on the ``Copy References & Tolerances``
link in the QA section.

.. figure:: images/setting_refs_and_tols/copy_ref_tols.png
   :alt: Copy ref tols link

   Copy ref tols link

On the next page, choose the source unit and test list (cycle) and the
destination unit and click ``Copy references and tolerances``.

.. figure:: images/setting_refs_and_tols/copy_ref_tols_choose.png
   :alt: Copy ref tols select

   Copy ref tols select

Finally, you will be asked to review and confirm before the new
references are set.

.. figure:: images/setting_refs_and_tols/copy_ref_tols_confirm.png
   :alt: Copy ref tols confirm

   Copy ref tols confirm
