Assigning A Test List Or Test List Cycle To A Unit
==================================================

Once you have created a `unit <units.html>`__ and a `test
list <test_lists.html>`__ (or `test list cycle <test_list_cycles.png>`__)
you need to create an association between the two before the test list
can actually be performed. To do this click on the **Assign Test Lists
to Units** link from the main admin page and then click **Add unit test
collection** button in the top right hand corner.

The fields required for assigning a test list to a unit are described
below.

Unit
~~~~

The unit you want to assign the test list to.

Frequency
~~~~~~~~~

The `frequency <frequencies.png>`__ with which you want the test list
(cycle) to be performed (e.g. Daily, Monthly, Yearly etc).

Optionally, you can leave the frequency blank and the test list will be
assigned to be performed on an *ad-hoc* basis.

Due Date & Auto Schedule
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Here you can manaully set the initial due date/time for a test list on a
unit. You can also leave this blank if you like and the test list will
show up as being *Not Due*.

If you leave **Auto Schedule** checked, the due date will automatically
be updated according to the assigned frequency after the test list is
completed on a unit.

Assigned To
~~~~~~~~~~~

The group of users that is generally responsible for performing the the
lists. Note that the **Assigned To** property is used for display only
and users not part of the **Assigned To** group will still be able to
see and perform the test list.

Visible To
~~~~~~~~~~

By default, all user groups will be able to see and perform a test list.
If you want to restrict access/hide a test list from certain groups you
can move the groups from the **Chosen visible to** to the **Available
visible to** box.

Active
~~~~~~

If this checkbox is unchecked, the test list will not appear in any
listings on the main site. This should be used to disable test lists
that are no longer performed on a unit (deleting the unit test
collection would cause a loss of historical data).

Content Type
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Choose whether you are assigning a `test list <test_lists.html>`__ or a
`test list cycle <test_list_cycle.html>`__ to this unit. After choosing
the type of test collection you are adding, the **Object id** dropdown
will be populated with the appropriate items.

Object id
~~~~~~~~~

Choose the test collection (test list or test list cycle) that you want
to assign to this unit.

An example
----------

The below screen shot shows a test list being assigned to a tomotherapy
unit on a daily basis.

.. figure:: images/assign_to_unit.png
   :alt: Assigning a test list to a unit

   Assigning a test list to a unit

And this is the way it would look in a listing on the main site:

.. figure:: images/assign_to_unit_listing.png
   :alt: Test list assigned to a unit on main site

   Test list assigned to a unit on main site
